I will now introduce some common interview questions and how to go about tackling them.

• Tell us about yourself. 
This is often the first question interviewers ask, as such it is important to answer this properly to give a good first impression.

You should avoid irrelevant personal information such as your family background and your hobbies, as your employees are not interested in them.

You should also not waste the opportunity by simply diving into a long recitation of your resume. 
Instead, emphasise on experiences or skills that fit the new job requirement.

For example, when talking about your experience, rather than telling the interviewer "I spent three years working in Google", Draw attention to your success during that time. Highlight some projects you've worked on that you are proud of. Describe how you have contributed to the project and skills you have picked up from the experience that would be helpful in fulfilling your new job requirement.



Next,
• What is your greatest weakness? 
First of all, you should never claim that you have no weakness, as it shows that you are conceited and not aware of your shortcomings

You should also not present a completely irrelevant weakness, as it shows you do not understand the intent of the question. For instance, do not talk about your lack of musical talent if you are applying for a technical job, as your interviewer is not interested in that.

What you want to do is to present a weakness that could have positive side effects.
However, do not give something generic such as I’m a perfectionist or workaholic.  Interviewers hear these examples all the time and they will be dismissed as disingenuous and unauthentic.

Instead, you should be specific and tailor it to your field.
For instance, if you are applying for a software developer job, you can say that you are relatively slow at code production, often rewriting codes over and over because you thought of new ways to make it more efficient and reliable.

Next, you want to show what u have been doing to alleviate the problem

For instance, you can say that you are dedicating more time in planning stage to make sure you come out with the most efficient algorithm before implementing it, which will ensure that you can improve your code production speed while maintaining high code quality.



• Why did you leave your last job? 

-As Julian has mentioned, you should remain positive and not speak ill of your past employer, as it only reflects badly on your character. Instead, focus on the future.

For example, you are looking for greater challenges, as you have reached the ceiling in your previous job.
Hence you desire to take on more responsibility and grow in a career.
You can also take this opportunity to share what you’ve learned about the potential new company and how it can fulfil your needs, that it is a strong match of your strengths and experience

You should avoid stating your salary as a prime motivator for change, as it may create the impression that you will leave this company as soon as you find a higher paying job. 



• Where do you see yourself in five years? 
Most of us do not know what we will be doing in 5 months, let alone 5 years. This question is not designed to test your psychic powers. 
Rather, the interviewer wants to understand more about your career goals and how this position would fit into your grand plan. 
Understandably, an employer wants to hire someone who is truly excited about the job at hand, someone who sees it as a great career move and will work tirelessly to do a good job.

You should therefore stress your interest in a long-term career at the company, don't give the impression that this would only be a temporary diversion. Rather, assure them you are committed and want to stay and grow with the company. 



I will now sum it up with some general advices.

First, always keep in mind that a company conducting an interview is trying to fulfil their needs, not yours! Answer the questions in term of their perspective, such as how you can help them satisfy their needs and achieve their goals, based on your past training and experience.

As much as possible, you should incorporate genuine experiences into your answer, as concrete examples will better substantiate your statements.

On that note, make sure you do not contradict your previous responses, that is a clear sign that your answers are not candid 

Do not pretend to be someone you are not, as it will only do both yourself and the company a disservice since it will eventually unfold

The purpose of the interview is not to deceive the company, but to make sure they know what you are really capable of

The journey of a thousand miles begin with a single step. A good interview is the first step towards a long and fulfilling career. Be sure to prepare for it and give in your best.

